  Is xbiff just not quite enough for you?

  This is xlbiff, the X Literate Biff.

  Xlbiff lurks in the background, monitoring your mailbox file (normally
  /usr/spool/mail/<yourusername>).  When something shows up there, it
  invokes the MH scan(1) command and displays the output in a window.
  If more mail comes in, it scans again and resizes accordingly.

  Clicking the left mouse button anywhere in the window causes it to
  vanish.  It will also vanish if you inc(1) and the mailbox becomes
  empty.  Xlbiff is modeled after xconsole -- its job is to sit invisibly
  and pop up only when something demands your attention.


ADVANTAGES (or, Why Yet Another Biff?)

  Xlbiff:
    + occupies no screen real estate until mail comes in
    + lets you preview new mail to decide if you want to read it immediately
    + is easy to make go away


INSTALLING

  The usual:  edit the Makefile and type `make'.  If that works,  type 
  `make install' or install by hand -- you should be able to figure it out.
  You may want to tweak some values in the app-defaults file and/or add
  some resources to your .Xdefaults.  You also probably want to tell your
  window manager not to put borders or titlebars or whatever around the
  xlbiff window.  Finally, don't forget to add an `l' to that xbiff
  invocation in your .Xlogin!

  Note that an MH format file, xlbiff.form, is included.  This form:

	- omits message number, which is meaningless in this context
	- omits message size, since `scan -file' can't figure it out
	- puts a `*' next to the message if your name is on the To: list
	  (before you say "duh", think about mailing lists and cc's)
	- displays the date in a friendly format
	- packs as much subject & body into one line as possible.

  Xlbiff.form was stolen & hacked from Jerry Peek's excellent Nutshell
  book on MH & xmh.


*THINGS TO BE AWARE OF*

  Xlbiff invokes `scan -file xxx' by default, and thus requires MH 6.7 
  or above.  If your MH isn't at this level, and you don't feel like
  upgrading, there's games you can play with `inc -notruncate' but
  they are such horrible kludges that I will not even attempt to 
  describe them.

  If you're a Berkeley mail person, you can set scanCommand to:

	mail </dev/null | grep "^.[NU]"

  but it sure does look ugly.  Perhaps there are .mailrc settings
  to make it look more decent?


PORTING (or, if INSTALLING didn't work)

  Xlbiff has been tested only on one DECstation 5000 running Ultrix 4.2 
  and X11R5.  It compiles under cc and gcc, but not under DEC ANSI C for
  reasons I haven't bothered to investigate.

  The only things I can imagine causing trouble are the use of alarm(3)
  and getlogin/getpwuid(3) -- but you're already saying "huh, I bet there's
  tons of bugs in there".  If fixes are required, or if you add any whizzy
  features (see TODO for a partial list), please mail them to me,
  santiago@lerad.pa.dec.com, and I will wrap them up for future
  releases.

  Xlbiff comes with a Makefile, no Imakefile.  


BACKGROUND

  I wrote xlbiff because I don't always want to read my mail.  Regular
  xbiff lets me know when I have mail but not what it is -- this makes
  me have to inc(1) just so I can decide if I want to bother reading it.
  Xlbiff gives me a much better indication of whether or not I want to
  take time to read a new message.  If I don't, I just click it away
  and continue with what I'm doing.

  Before xlbiff, I wrote a crude hack using perl and xmessage.  It worked,
  but I had always wanted to do it right.


AUTHOR

  Ed Santiago
  DEC Workstation Systems Engineering
  santiago@lerad.pa.dec.com
